foreign
yes I'm in the process of writing my
third book I have been for a while
a provisional title
is irrationality
but I'm struggling with that title there
is a fashion at the moment there has
been for for a number of years
for writing books about the mind and
about thinking and about rationality
which whose main theme is to denigrate
human beings
and denigrate them for
being irrational is is basically what it
amounts to but but it's it's it's
um expressed in a number of ways like
that that humans are prone to biases and
they're like you know 137 different
biases that we're prone to and we're
also prone to genetic influences which
cause biases
and these these books and movements that
talk about biases and other defects in
human beings
some of them have purport to have ways
of eliminating these or getting around
them
um which then leads to a kind of
um Us and Them attitude where uh those
who have taken this advice and have lost
their biases are like better better
people they they are uh their thinking
is to be trusted they are their
authorities and other people uh there
well it would be better if they'd never
been born if then if they're not going
to adopt
uh these these methods and so on if I
call my book irrationality it's going to
look like a book that says this
and that's the opposite really almost
the exact opposite of what I want to say
I I I
uh want to say that humans
are creative
and rational they can always be more
creative and rational since creativity
and rationality are forms of knowledge
and we're always at the beginning of
infinity when it comes to knowledge so
the book is another way of putting it is
that the book is about how thinking
works
and what promotes
creative
explanatory thinking and what impedes it
and it's just some ideas about that it's
it's not a complete theory of that if if
we had a complete theory of that it
would be artificial general intelligence
so we we know relatively little about
how the mind works and and what what I
want to
comment on is as usual with me
um footnotes to Papa
so Karl Popper
understood about knowledge and the
growth of knowledge and this is relevant
to how minds work unfortunately it
doesn't tell us the whole story by long
chalk
but it tells us some things that are
false also there's the fact that
in recent times the reputation of Reason
in various forms has kind of Fallen
and people people think they have to
reject it
and this is not the same as becoming
irrational or becoming less than human
they're just errors
but
errors are there to be corrected and I I
want to put my top and tape any worth
into the mix to uh comment on on what I
think
what errors I think people are making
about humans and about knowledge